# Assignment 1 (Stabilizer codes)

Use a _single_ jupyter notebook with embedded markdown and code to answer the following questions. Be brief with the analytical answers, but properly comment your code! 

1. Recall the 'pizza slice' picture of quantum error correction: given that I have $n$ qubits, and I want to encode $k < n$ logical qubits in them, how many stabilizers do I need? What is the number of _independent_ stabilizers (i.e., the stabilizer _generators_)? 
2. Given some $m$ operators, say, $S_1, S_2, \dots S_m$, what are the constraints on them so that $G = \langle S_1, S_2, \dots S_m\rangle$ forms a stabilizer group? (Recall that the notation $\langle a,b\rangle$ means the group generated by $a$ and $b$).
3. Say I have a stabilizer group $G = \langle S_1, S_2, \dots S_m\rangle$ which is used to form a stabilizer code. What kind of errors can this code correct? (think about some error, and it's possible relationships with the stabilizer generators!)
4. What are the stabilizers for the 3-qubit repetition code? Code up the error correction pipeline for the 3-qubit code: first construct the encoder, then let some single qubit error act, and then perform non-destructive measurements of the stabilizer generators. You get a bit-string, called the _syndrome_. Now, construct a classical function which takes in the syndrome bits and spits out the corrective unitary to be applied to correct for the error. What kind of errors can you correct for in the 3-qubit code?
5. The three qubit code cannot correct for arbitrary errors! Why? Think in terms of the discretization theorem.
6. Well, then what is the minimum number of qubits you need to construct a code which can correct for _any_ single qubit error? Feel free to scout some references here. Write down the stabilizers of this code, and code it up in your favourite library to implement the error correction pipeline yet again!
7. Now, another interesting quintessential QECC is the _Shor_ code. This is interesting because it is a composition of two 3-qubit codes. How? Read up on it, and write down the stabilizers of this code. Does this code correct for any single qubit error? What are it's stabilizers? Last but not the least, code it up!
